(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)

Like the very simple passwords like 1, 2, 3, 4, or you know a little bit more closer to you personally but still relatively devoid of a much interesting stuff like just your name and birth date or something which I'm obviously like that is like a no I don't know where I'm going everybody is like oh it's okay I'm asking like very specific questions. I feel like I'm sort of um I mean you're confirming already a lot of questions I had and you're giving me more evidence to go with. I think I'm more interested in hearing perhaps thoughts that go against me perhaps like racism or whatever because I might feel this is about I was just reading my thesis question, and my tutor said that it's a little bit of a bad question, but I'm going to read it anyways. 

I just know that it's going to change. The question is, how does the contemporary login experience define digital subjectivity with design, or rather how might authentication be imagined as a relational, rather than disciplinary, not the right word, practice, and how much, this is not the right question. This is so bad, holy fucking shit.

Damn, I don't even have to criticize you. Okay, great, this is great, actually. What I write in my introduction is much, much, much, much, much, much, much better. 

So, the guiding questions are, what does login teach us about being a user in network systems? How does the externalization of authentication reshape the politics of design and the economy of stuff, and can login be redesigned as a moment of relation building between user and platform? This is, the final question is the right one. I talk about a lot of different things. I talk about how we are living, like design real estate, because we have Google and Microsoft that, you know, you can sign in with Google, sign in with whatever. 

You also have, like, two FAs, which is Authenticator apps, and those aspects of the login experience, when they take you out of the platform, they can sort of dictate the decisions that you make as a web designer, because, you know, if you have the option, you know, log into Google and, like, your edgy website, this is going to, like, clash with the visual identity of your platform as well. So, they take a lot of design real estate, they take a lot of space in decisions, and you have to look at your device and stuff. My question was, like, how do you get back into the platform, first of all, instead of externalizing it, and then... I'm long-winded, I'm winding myself.

Oh, my God. Any questions? Well, one thought that I had while I was saying stuff earlier that I thought was interesting that maybe you could look into more as well. I don't know if it would be really relevant to your actual topics and stuff. 

But one thing that kind of stuck to me from when I was having my morals class in university, which was, you know, all about, like, the morals of computers and stuff, and especially, like, social media and such. But one interesting topic that we discussed at the time is how people behave differently when they think they are being watched, right? And you don't actually have to be physically watched, but even just hanging a camera in a room that's clearly visible, but isn't necessarily on, and nobody's necessarily on the other side of the camera looking, that will change how people behave inside that room. And in that sense, you know, not even just directly being watched, but when logging in itself becomes more of an act of, how do I put this? Like, I feel like the more closer logging in comes to confirming your real life identity, the more that in itself can be an act of being observed as well. 

And this can change the way we behave on certain platforms and interact with, I guess, logging in and such. I don't know if that would be really interesting. Actually, this is so great. 

This is to be useful. There's also, like, much people that talk about, what's the name of that? Some people say, like, you have to watch out for your digital, what's the term again? Footprint? Exactly, digital footprint. Online footprint, digital footprint.

Yeah. Because, like, your account can be traced back to you, you have to pay attention to things you say online, et cetera, et cetera. So, it goes back to it, indeed. 

And that is sort of not a concern that we've had before. Is that true? Like, at least in the heydays of, or the early days of the incident, not really, no. And now, because of that, we have... Which, again, reflects... Oh, yeah, it, again, it reflects a little bit with how we, how our online identities used to be back in those days versus today. 

And... I think I'm going to stop recording now, proceeding right now. Now, as I said, this is very informal, this is just a community, and I'm really just interested to hear your thoughts first about, like, the relationship towards, like, login, like, the login process on the online platforms, and what it means to you, things of that nature. I think I may be already made you answer the survey, so I already have your answers on that. 

But I'm also interested in having, like, perhaps your more so, like, opinions, general opinions on your experiences throughout the days, and also, like, your criticism on this research I'm doing, because I feel like if I'm not getting criticized, like, I'm not going to get any there. So, like, if you can... I'm not saying, like, that you should break me apart and be like, oh, yeah, this sucks, whatever. But mostly, you know, raise some questions that I think would be worth, like, telling you about. 

You know what I mean? Does that make sense? Yeah, sure. Because I trust your opinion. I think you're also, like, first of all, hold on, present yourself to me. 

Like, what do you do? What's your, what's your whole state? Hello, I am anonymous. I have a background in computer science and programming and stuff, so I'm a bit tech-savvy, which means I also know a little bit about tech side and stuff from stuff like logging in, at least online. Currently, I also work at the Dutch tax department, which is a secure online location, so I do have to deal with a lot of security steps, getting access to those systems, which involve various means of logging in and verifying things like my identity. 

So in that sense, I do think I might have some useful insights on the whole discourse. So yeah, that's who I am, I think, at least relevant to this topic. Okay, that's amazing and great. 

So you are also the second person, no actually not the second, but one of the many people in IT I've been talking to, but the second person I'm actually officially, like, interviewing on that. I don't know if you do web design as well? Not right now. I've dabbled a little bit with it, so I know the basics of it.

Yeah, right now I'm responsible for maintaining a set of servers that the tax department uses. ... issues that we face throughout the day, related to, you know, web security. Not web security, but like, informatics security, IT, whatever.

Well, working with the tax department and the government organization, we deal with a lot of sensitive data and access to a lot of sensitive systems. So it's always very important to properly log in to make sure that we are who we are, we say we are, when accessing different parts. So we do deal with a lot of different ways in which we access the system.

We have a lot of security policies in place to make sure that, you know, nobody gets access that isn't supposed to get access. And in part that means I have to log in multiple times in different systems with multiple different methods to make sure it's secure, but it also sometimes means that as somebody who maintains these secure systems, and sometimes needs to provide access to the systems to outside parties, it also means they sometimes have to generate security keys that are then supplied to those parties, which they can then log into the systems themselves in a secure way. That's also interesting. 

I'm not just only logging in myself, but I also have to help other people log in sometimes. Yeah, the key word really there is making sure it all is secure. It is a bit different, you know, working in a closed system like this from like, say, logging into Facebook and all that not. 

So secondly, I'm part of the organization myself, I'm a known entity to them, and they know about me. And being an employee there, obviously, I guess I'm more known than I would be on like, as a customer on Facebook, which I guess means we can use different security policies since I have a laptop that can only connect to our internal network. So just having that laptop, having that physically is already a measure of security that I guess you wouldn't have with Facebook, where you can just log in from anywhere, everywhere on whatever device you want to.

I also have a key card, they have my bioinformatics and stuff that can all be used to log in. And like I said, the parts of the system that I'm able to connect in is all tailor-made specifically for my function. So I cannot also go to other parts of the text department that I have no place being at.

And because this is like, I guess, a more intimate form of having access to system that can also be tailor-made specifically to me and my function within the organization. Well, so all the different parts of the systems of the text department are basically split up into different domains and you basically you get access on a need to have basis. So I specifically work with my set of servers, so I have access to those servers, at least in the top level, but I don't get access to the things that actually are running on the server because I don't need to have access to the actual applications and stuff.

I don't need to, so I can't. And that is, I suppose, another way in which login and such verifications can be tailor-made in that sense. Well, yeah, like you said, they are necessary for security, so I'm okay with it.

One of the steps that, well, yeah, because I do this job for a public entity out of a moral sense of obligation, I suppose. And so I understand that in order to do this job properly and securely, I do need to agree with some of the security policies. And one of those is that I need to use a facial ID to log into a certain part or a facial scan to log into a certain part of the system, which normally I'm not a fan of.

I don't have facial identification or biometrics enabled on anything else except for this job. So in that sense, yeah, I do understand that it is necessary for me to step a little bit out of my comfort zone and to engage with some login methods that I normally wouldn't want to because of a sense of obligation, I suppose. In terms of login on your personal devices, I've had one IT-related who actually sort of works in the same field as you.

He has biometric data in his personal devices. He didn't say he was too enthused by it, but he wasn't necessarily avoiding it entirely. How do you express your feeling towards biometric logging? I suppose it kind of reflects on what I would consider to be an ideal way of logging in.

The idea of logging in is you want to get access to some secure part of a system, like, say, your own account, say, sensitive servers of the government or whatnot. And from the system's perspective, you only want to give that access to the specific person for whom that access is intended. So you only want to allow the actual owner of an account to log into it, obviously.

But I personally feel that there's that vulnerability, though, that you need to be able to identify the owner to grant access to only that owner. But on the other hand, from the owner's perspective at least, I don't want the system to be able to identify me, I would say. Do you feel like your biometric data being used for identification is a liability? Well, yes, and I would say the same for basically any method of logging in that uses data that is intrinsic, that you cannot change or shed if you need to, in a sense.

So, yeah, your fingerprints, your facial scan, but also things like your phone, I suppose. Those are things you cannot change that, well, easily, I would say. And that's why I think things like passwords and private keys and such are much nicer because at the end of the day, you can make them as secure or insecure as you want to, but you can always change your password if you want to start using a different username or email.

And that, to me, feels like a much, well, from a moral point of view, a much nicer way of logging in. So let's go back to your work. You said you felt you were, this is a new paraphrasing, obviously, correctly.

You said that you were contrived into accepting biometric forms of identification for your job because you too followed certain security policies, but you employed people to be data secure, which is nice, obviously. And so is that correct? Is that how you felt? Did I get that correctly? Yes. And I feel like there's more to ask from you out of this conundrum, actually.

I think this is very interesting because you're confronted to different methods of identification and you said that you don't mesh well with the philosophy of having a set form of unchanging data to identify you. Is it because of the nature of the unchanging data that you can't change, or is it because it can always be traced back to you because it doesn't change? I think, yeah, in a sense that it can always be traced back to you, and that might just be like a little bit of sense of skepticism that I don't think you can ultimately trust other entities to always act in your best interest, and especially with data that can be stored for very long times. Even if you trust the entities right now to not abuse that kind of data against you, there's no guarantee that in 10 years when the leadership has changed or something, that they would still act in your best interest.

Maybe that's just a little bit of paranoia or healthy skepticism, but that is to me a very important concern in these kinds of matters. With data that isn't unchangeable, at the very least you don't have that risk that in 10 years' time somebody comes at your door and says, hey, that stuff you posted on Facebook back then, that's not okay, you have to come with us. And that might sound unrealistic, but it has happened before in history, and it arguably can be happening right now as well.

From what I've heard, it's like people not being able to get a visa to get into the country because of the stuff they posted on the social media accounts. Yeah, like I said, login can be used to, how do I put this? I think a good login method allows you to confirm that you are the owner of that account, but it should not allow the opposite, where the account can be used to confirm that you were the owner, I would say. So it should only go one way, basically.

Wait, can you repeat that, actually? So I think a good login method is one where you can confirm you are the owner of an account, but where the account and the lock of the information cannot be used to confirm that you are the owner. I think as long as it just goes that one way, then that is a good login method, at least from a moral point of view. I think that's kind of important.

And I do think it also fits in a broader theme we see in the way how platforms and the Internet have kind of developed. Back in the day, you used to just be a username with some random profile picture, and you'd log in with some random email address and password, and your online identity was entirely devoid from the real world. And nowadays, with things like Facebook, your online identity, you're incentivized to have that be equal to your real-life identity, and you're incentivized to share as much of your real life as you can online.

Everybody uses their real names and such. And I think in that same kind of pattern, that push towards synchronizing our online and offline identities can likewise be seen in how we log in and, in that sense, identify ourselves online through the older made-up methods of just some password, just some username, to nowadays more in-real-life methods, like with messages to our actual phones and biometrics and stuff. I do think it's interesting that those two trends seem to be kind of aligned.

Maybe, I don't know. I have not actually looked at the trends. I'm so glad that you mentioned it, because I do mention it in my critical philosophy of logging, but it's not a segment that I'm going to keep.

I'm going to change it and remain limited by motivation and reflection on logging beforehand. But I do mention that the luminality, when I talk about luminality, which is the transitional effect between one space to another, like the luminal space in the login, has grown outside of the online platform and externalized its way into our pockets, our phones, our bodies, and relates a physical presence to an online presence, because they do this for security in a way. As a person that works in taxes and that works in a domain that needs to be secure, that needs to have that relationship to be able to, you know, you are who you say you are, how do you feel about that trend? Because you work in a, I think it's a little bit of an, I'm not going to say it's an oxymoron, but it kind of feels like it's because you work in a system that you fundamentally don't agree with the methods that you're using, but the methods are necessary. 

How do you feel about that? That does bring up an interesting little conundrum, I suppose. In the tax department, we are a very large IT organization, with the very explicit necessity to know people's real-life identities within our systems, at least to be able to link, because we tax real-life people, so our data does fundamentally go about real-life people, and those real-life people need to be able to log into our systems to report their tax information and such, if they're using the online methods, which a lot of people do do. So it is a little bit of a juxtaposition between my personal opinions, obviously, about those sorts of things.

And while I do think... Oh, sorry, keep going, I'm thinking about something else as well, because I'm making a comparison between my personal opinion and the national opinion, but keep going. Well, I don't actually know exactly where I'm going with this. I think there are a lot of reasons why I'm trying to excuse why it's okay for us to do so, at the very least because we are a government entity that, at the very least, operates under a public mandate, and that the practical ways in which we go about identifying people, at least, it's not a necessity.

People can still do their tax returns on a non-digital way, and even digitally they have a lot of different options on how to identify themselves, but that's honestly stuff I don't even have influence over, so my own opinion on it doesn't matter. At the same time, as a government employee, my personal opinions on things like that sort of policy shouldn't matter, obviously. I don't know where I'm going with this, actually, anymore.

I was thinking, like, I don't think necessarily that biometry or, you know, confirming, like, doing 2FA with a phone or a device and having your identity linked to a phone number or to your iPhone or to your face or to whatever is the way to go to prove that there is a person that exists behind a computer. I think what you said before was really interesting because you said, I don't want the computer to be able to confirm that it's me, I want to be able to, myself, confirm that this is me indeed. I don't know how you said it exactly, I have to go back and quote it exactly how you said it, you mentioned that it should be confirmed on a user basis and not on a platform basis.

The confirmation needs to start with you, not with the platform that always needs to verify that it's you. And also I was thinking, for the faxes, you don't need biometry to confirm that it's you. At least the way I do my faxes, they never actually ask for my biometric data.

What happens is that they give me, I'm talking about myself now, they give me a letter containing my name, my address, whatever, and here there's a code that when I do my tax returns, I need to write that code down because it's my case for my taxes, and then I fill it out, and then you fill out the identifying information, like who I am, where I live, how old I am, etc. And then I do my tax returns and that's it. But at no point do they ask me, like, oh yeah, confirm that this is your device, confirm that this is your data.

But they can confirm that this is you. But all of that is possible because the tax department at least knows where you live, so they know where to send that letter with that specific information, right? So on a basis, they do know information about you that they can use to trace you. But that's the thing that they use to trace me.

I mean the fact that they have to.

(This file is longer than 30 minutes. Go Unlimited at TurboScribe.ai to transcribe files up to 10 hours long.)