(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)

Do languages belong to you, or in which case do you think they belong to you? I don't see it as an interface to authenticate myself. For accounts where we have objects or information in them, it's true that for me, I start from the principle that it's mine, even if we know that often the rules behind... I often take this example, but I estimate that if they want to do my two hands, technically they don't owe anything to anyone. Whereas if we have a game manager or something like that, they don't owe each other to provide this service forever.

And it's true that it can be problematic. I'll give you an example. I had an interesting answer to the question you asked me.

When I said that you think accounts belong to you, and someone said that they belong to you, did you really think they belonged to you when they chose if the accounts could be limited or not? I see. We'll give you the options. If you haven't asked it before, it's up to you.

In the end, I think you gave it to me. I don't know if you're interested. Your answer is a bit more of an office.

Does it belong to you? Do you have things in it? Yes, it belongs to me. It doesn't matter, but from the moment I created it, for me, it's mine. What does it mean? Does it mean that I can't take it? That I can't close it? Yes, in the sense that it's my place.

But it's true that there's the manager behind it. You can all of a sudden have elements from the answers. There's still a national affair behind it.

I think it's the last question. The first one is rather, what do you do when you have the Zoom, the server, the Zoom and the Simless? What do you do to stop the users from accessing the site? Ideally, I like when the Simless is typically an automatic connection. I don't want to relog every time in my applications on my PC or my phone.

It also causes problems. For me, I prefer when it's quite Simless, especially for quite simple things. I understand that it's a bit more complex for banking data and that kind of thing.

How do you think a platform could be used? Sometimes I'm aware of which email address I'm using. I try to separate my private from my public. There are a lot of things.

I prefer to use one address in particular than another. Yes, you can trace the person with email addresses, but I prefer to separate as much as possible. I have my official address, where I don't necessarily want to put anything on it or log anywhere on it.

I don't want it to be linked to certain aspects of my life. So I'm not going to use it for anything. I don't want to give it to anyone or any site.

I don't want to give it to anyone. Do you have any questions? Not necessarily. Thank you.

(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)